---
layout: post
title:  "Web tools on mobile"
date:   2017-02-10 12:06:01 -0500
categories: webtools
---

It's interesting how tablet and phone handputers have a second class status to desktops for tools like the [now defunct](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Migrating_from_Firebug) Firebug.  As tablets, especially high-end Android and iPad Pro devices, become desktop replacements, where will these tools be?

I wrote [Anchors](https://jlongman.github.io/anchors/) because I didn't have the tools I wanted on my mobile devices. It lets you pick out HTML anchors (ie `a` tags) or `id`'s in pages and link directly to them.

On iOS there's a massive limitation in that Apple won't let you ship an alternative browser, just package theirs, as mobile Chrome, Firefox (and Focus, using an older API) are forced to do. So much of the existing work to provide these tools is simply not permitted on an iOS device. Even the iPad "Pro" is not a serious web development replacement.

(I have to admit I'm not familiar with Android tablet options.  My HP TouchPad which was my "play" platform looks pretty bricked at the moment.)

[Anchors](https://jlongman.github.io/anchors/) works because it uses the [Action Extensions API](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/General/Conceptual/ExtensibilityPG/Action.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014214-CH13-SW1), but that's fairly limited.  I can execute some JavaScript on the web page, and then some iOS code, including a UI, and finally more JavaScript on the page but then the iOS extension is terminated.  That's not nearly enough to replace the desktop on the tablet.

You _can_ use the [Safari remote debugging](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/AppleApplications/Conceptual/Safari_Developer_Guide/GettingStarted/GettingStarted.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40007874-CH2-SW13) modes - Chrome has the same for Android -  but that requires a laptop or desktop beside your tablet, at which point why bother.

So I'll be looking at other tools and see what they can do.  And I'll see if I can debrick that tablet. I know I've seen some "View Formatted Source" type apps out there, and that's better than nothing - but only barely.
